2021/windows/cleanup/README.md, before:

# Cleanup temporary or cached files

## General Idea

In general, it is easy to do.
You have to clean up system and user cache and temporary files.

At the end, you iterate over a big list of locations and delete the content of it.

```
#as example
Set-Location "C:\Users"
Remove-Item ".\*\Appdata\Local\Temp\*" -Force -Recurse -EA SilentlyContinue -Verbose

#or put all in a variable and do it at once
$ListOfPathsToCleanUp = @("C:\Windows\Temp\*", "C:\Users\*\Appdata\Local\Temp\*")
Remove-Item $ListOfPathsToCleanUp -Force -Recurse -EA SilentlyContinue -Verbose
```

You could even add a "age" of files you want to keep, e.g. "only keep files not older than 30 days in the download path".
You cold even add a "only keep one copy" of a file, e.g. calculate the checksum of big files to delete the duplicates (happens when a file is downloaded more than once).

Since you are running it in verbose mode, you can log the output and keep it for one week.

## Paths to clean up

You should clean files in the following user paths:

* `%appdata%MicrosoftTeams`
* Take a look to [Powershell/Clear_Browser_Caches](https://github.com/lemtek/Powershell/blob/master/Clear_Browser_Caches)
* `PS C:\Windows\system32>$tempfolders = @("C:\Windows\Temp\*", "C:\Windows\Prefetch\*", "C:\Documents and Settings\*\Local Settings\temp\*", "C:\Users\*\Appdata\Local\Temp\*")`
* `PS C:\Windows\system32>Remove-Item $tempfolders -force -recurse`
* Check [TempFileCleanup.bat](https://github.com/bmrf/tron/blob/master/resources/stage_1_tempclean/tempfilecleanup/TempFileCleanup.bat)

# Links

* [Clean Browser Cache and Recycle Bin](https://github.com/Bromeego/Clean-Temp-Files) - 20210406
* [How to clear your Microsoft Teams cache on Windows 10](https://www.onmsft.com/how-to/how-to-clear-your-microsoft-teams-cache-on-windows-10) - 20200428
* [How to Create and Manage Scheduled Tasks with PowerShell?](http://woshub.com/how-to-create-scheduled-task-using-powershell/) - 20210408

Commit message:

added checking if path exists, if path does not contain any wild card in the middle

2021/windows/cleanup/README.md, after:

# Cleanup temporary or cached files

Free as in freedom microsoft windows terminal server cleanup script.

## Configuration and using it

This script comes out of the box in a "ready to execute" way.
You can run the [start_clean_up_system.bat](start_clean_up_system.bat) right away as administrator and the script will clean up stuff.

If you want to configure anything, you should copy the [localConfiguration.ps1.dist](data/localConfiguration.ps1.dist) as `localConfiguration.ps1` in the [data](data) path.
You can enable verbosity or log level in the local configuration. And of course, you can add more paths for the clean up system itself.

For each path, you can configure if you want to keep files older than x days. Furthermore, you can run a duplicate check, based on file hashs, and restrict to only bigger files.
This script comes with a bit of magic. If you put it `$user` in a path, the script will replace this with all available users it can find below `C:\Users\`.

## General Idea

This script helps you to clean up a multi user window system, like a terminalserver, with just one click.
The script is logging what it does, depending on your log level more or less.
The script comes with a collection of paths pointing to temporary or cache files.

You should run this script when no user is using the system, like at night.

At the end, you iterate over a big list of locations and delete the content of it.

# Links

* [Clean Browser Cache and Recycle Bin](https://github.com/Bromeego/Clean-Temp-Files) - 20210406
* [How to clear your Microsoft Teams cache on Windows 10](https://www.onmsft.com/how-to/how-to-clear-your-microsoft-teams-cache-on-windows-10) - 20200428
* [How to Create and Manage Scheduled Tasks with PowerShell?](http://woshub.com/how-to-create-scheduled-task-using-powershell/) - 20210408
